[AUDIO LOGO]
[APPLAUSE]
>> Ooh, it's bright up here.
[LAUGHS] Well, good
morning, everyone.
I hope that you are
enjoying yourselves.
And I have a feeling
that this has
been a very mind-expanding
conference so far.
Yes?
>> Yes.
>> All right.
Well, I hope that we will add to
that mind-expansion experience
here today.
Just to give you a little
bit about my background.
As you heard, I have
a PhD in Physics.
And as I was immersing
myself into the world
of left-brain science and
doing 80 hours of physics
a week between research
and study and testing
and all of the
graduate school grind,
I found myself thrown from
having a life of diversity
prior into a life
of only one thing.
And that was the
left-brain science.
And that put me into a state
of feeling like something
got really thrown off balance.
And I felt like something
is really missing.
I'm not feeling happy.
I found myself depressed.
And that set me on a
search, and that search
was what's going to restore the
sense of meaning and well being
and balance back into my life.
And that search
ultimately led me
to rediscovering the importance
of a form of metaphysics
or spirituality as
something deeper
that brings the meaning into why
we even do all of this science
and research and so forth.
And so I dove in
to the world of--
anywhere where we could
find that intersection
between science and
consciousness, science
and spirituality.
And as a scientist, one of the
things that really inspires us
is to try and really
understand the deeper
mysteries of the universe.
How does the universe work?
How did it come to be?
And who are we in relationship
to everything else
that is around us?
And also, how can
we understand things
at the most fundamental level?
That quantum level, the
most basic ingredients
of how this universe works, how
creation happens, and so forth.
And so the further
I went into science,
the more I realized that there
is such a beauty, a harmony,
to how this universe is
built. And there's so many
things that it's like
everything was so finely tuned.
It was almost too perfect
not to be intelligent.
So there was this
intelligence that I
kept seeing throughout
the creation, the design
of our universe,
that to me, it just
reinforced that there
is something beyond,
something purposeful.
Not just information, but
purposeful information
that has gone into the
creation of this universe.
And then as I explore deeply
into the ancient wisdom
teachings-- and in particular,
I found my resonance
in the Western traditions
of hermetics and alchemy
and the Kabbalistic teachings
and the Western mystery school
tradition--
there was, again,
this depth that I
found around the
creation of the universe.
And I found that these
ancient wisdom teachings
were reflecting to us the same
teachings and the same concepts
that modern science
was coming around
to again but from a
technological and theoretical
and scientific perspective.
But the ancient
wisdom teachings had
that for thousands of years.
So I thought, what else do
they know that could guide us?
Because we are on the
precipice of a great leap
technologically,
societally, but also
within human consciousness.
We are on this precipice
of a great leap.
And we need to make that
leap because if we don't, you
can see the way the
world's been going.
And it's getting more and
more chaotic and destructive.
But great chaos sometimes
precedes great growth.
So we are right
at this precipice.
And I have believed and
felt for a long time,
I've been doing this
work now with bridging
the science and the
spiritual for over 20 years.
And we need the wisdom to
come back in to guide us.
So, yes, we can be making these
technological advancements.
But if we don't have the
wisdom for how to apply it
in a way that really serves
the greater good of the whole,
then we will go on a
course of self destruction
rather than making that
leap into the potential
that we have as a human race.
So with this
presentation-- and I
have a lot to cover in
a little bit of time.
Now you can find a
lot of these teachings
and I dive deeper
into it on my show
on Gaia TV called
"Mystery Teachings."
There's four
seasons worth of it,
and we cover a broad
array of topics.
And also, you might find me on
some of the other shows on Gaia
as well.
Now some of what I
want to explore here
really is, we've been
talking a lot about history,
ancient history and the past.
But I'd like to talk
about who are we now,
and what is the potential of
what we're here to become?
And, yes, where do we come from?
But let's talk about
where do we come from even
beyond this physical.
We're going to get into
some of the metaphysical,
and I'll define what that means.
But these are some of the
most important questions
that the ancient
mysteries teach us
that we should be asking
ourselves is, who are we?
What are we?
What is our potential?
What is our purpose?
Where do we come from?
Where are we going and why?
Why are we here?
And when we can come to know
the answers to these questions
and the deeper
answers because they
have many, many
different answers,
then we can start
tapping into an awakening
that potential that's within us.
And so in this
presentation, I'll
be sharing with you
some of the wisdom that
comes from the hermetic
teachings, which is over,
at least 8,000 years, goes
back to Thoth and Hermes
Trismegistus.
And I'll also be
sharing with you
a little bit of what's called
the Universal Hermetic Ray
kabbalah from the
Mystery School Teachings.
And we'll explore our relation
to the Galactic sourcing
from a different level,
from a different dimension.
Now first of all, when
it comes to metaphysics,
we have to also talk
about something that
is beyond the physical, right?
We could call it spiritual.
We could call it
a divine source.
There is some intelligence.
That intelligence that
is behind the universe
or beyond the
physical dimension.
So when I talk
about it here though
from a hermetic
perspective, it's
not going to be about religion.
This is not about the God forms
that we've been sharing here
that maybe weren't really gods
but extraterrestrial or other
beings, maybe humans.
They-- this is a
universal source.
It's more abstract.
It is beyond what
we often think about
in our religious traditions.
And hermetic-- the original word
hermetic actually means pure.
It means pure.
So when something is
hermetically sealed,
it is-- nothing gets in.
It's unpolluted.
It remains very pure and
nondogmatic and unpolluted.
So we want to work with
this hermetic idea of what
are those universal principles
that transcend the dogma, that
transcend the religion,
transcend culture,
transcend even just one
human interpretation or way
of thinking about it.
We can see it written all
over nature and the universe.
And when it comes to
metaphysics, what is it?
Well, it's beyond the physical.
Meta, meaning beyond.
Sometimes also
meaning in between.
If you think of what is in
between the particles that
make up the atoms of our
being, well, it's empty space.
But within that empty
space is the quantum field.
And that is where we
can find that bridge
between the physical and the
metaphysical or the spiritual.
So metaphysics is
really the science
of the inward and essential
nature of things--
this is the original
meaning of it--
or the study of the
first causes of things.
So it is beyond just
talking about spiritual.
It's about really
talking about how
is it-- how did it all begin?
What is the essence of
what we are made of?
And in all the ancient
spiritual traditions
and metaphysical traditions,
they say, know thyself, right?
Above the doors of all
the ancient mystery
schools were the words know
thyself or thine own self thou
must know, because
they believed that we
are the microcosm that is a
reflection of the macrocosm.
If we were made in the
image of the divine
or if we have a holographic
replication of the universe
within us, which indeed
we do, and the more you
study our essence and we
have more cells in our body,
for example, than there
are stars in the universe,
we are cosmic beings within us.
We're even made
of that stardust.
And so the reflection of the
whole universe is within us.
So the more we come
to know ourselves,
the more we will
know the universe.
The more we know who we really
are at an essential level.
The more we can understand
the divine source.
And so here we want
to know ourselves.
So this brings us to those
questions again-- who am I?
Where am I?
What am I?
Where do I come from?
Where am I going?
And so in the hermetic
teachings, now this--
some of these quotes that
I'll be giving to you
are from The Kybalion.
Now The Kybalion was not
published that long ago,
but the teachings themselves
are of an oral tradition
that is very ancient.
And these universal
principles they talk about,
the hermetic
principles, are just--
they're scientific, as well
as ancient mystery teachings.
And they say the
very first principle
is that the All is mind.
And so in the
hermetic teachings,
they say the source is the All.
They don't anthropomorphize
it or make it
into some human-like being
or some god-like figure
like you see in the pantheons.
They say it's just
the All, right?
And the All is mind, or we could
say the All is intelligence.
It is consciousness.
It is eternal.
And this mind, this All, creates
universes within its own mind,
within its own mentality.
And there are
millions and millions
of such universes within
the mind of the All.
Now millions and
millions of universes,
to me as a physicist, this is
talking about the multiverse.
This is talking
about the many worlds
interpretation of
quantum physics
that there are so
many universes.
They're not just this universe
that we're talking about.
There are many.
So then who are we?
What are we?
Where do we fit within
this mind of the All?
Or we could say that we
are also part of that.
We are one with that, because
everything that comes to be,
comes from that--
that Intention, that
original intention.
And so this intelligent energy,
eternal essence, eternal being,
pure awareness,
these are other ways
that we can talk about this.
Who we are is that.
We are not these
physical bodies.
So these bodies are
like rental vehicles.
Our intelligence, our
pure awareness, spirit,
whatever you want
to call it came here
through eons and eons
and eons of journey
and is here on this Earth
for a short experience.
And we pick up these rental
vehicles called bodies.
Who cares who
engineered these bodies.
They're just here
for us to borrow them
for an amount of time so that
we can have an experience here
at this dimension.
And I want you to
understand that there
is so much more going on
than just the physical.
And so where are we, right?
We might get the impression
that we are here,
that we're here in this physical
body, we're here in this room.
But in the hermetic
teachings, they
say that you are dwelling in
the infinite mind of the All.
And your possibilities
and opportunities
are infinite in
both time and space.
Infinite, right?
So let's start
stretching our mind
to those infinite possibilities
beyond just what we perceive
with these limited
rental vehicles
called bodies, because
these are very limited.
Just as an example, you
have what we see, right?
What we see in the
visible light spectrum.
That rainbow
spectrum that we see,
that is 1% of the
electromagnetic spectrum
that our scientists
are even aware of.
So our eyes detect 1% of the
electromagnetic spectrum.
Now we know that there's
other things there.
For example, how
many of you have
cell phones in your pockets?
Everybody here, yeah?
Probably.
Well, and we know that
those cell phones pick up
their signals from
the satellites.
And then we've got the
Wi-Fi and all of this.
And so all of these
waves of energy,
these are happening all--
we're bathed in these
energies, right?
But we don't see them.
We don't necessarily feel them.
Some people maybe do, but
our cell phones pick them up.
So we know that there
are broader ranges.
And yet in that 1% of the
visible light spectrum,
your eyes perceive it, but
does your conscious mind
register it?
Right?
Maybe 5% to 10% of
your conscious mind
will register that.
So now we're talking
that you're seeing
0.1% of the physical
reality around you.
0.1%.
So can you really say
seeing is believing?
No.
And then we filter, right?
Because our subconscious
mind filters so much
of the information
that's coming in.
And that's just talking
about the visible light.
Then we have the sound spectrum.
We have the spectrum of what we
feel, smell, and taste, and so
forth.
So our five senses, they're
here to help us experience
this physical dimension.
But they are by no
means helping us
perceive the totality
of what's going on
in this great universe.
So are we alone?
This is another question that
has been asked many, many times
throughout history.
And in the hermetic
teachings, they
say that there are
beings that even
in our own little
solar system, there
are regions and plains
of life higher than ours
and beings who, compared to
which we earthbound mortals,
are as the mere slimy lifeforms
that dwell on the oceans bed
when compared to man.
There are beings that
have powers and attributes
higher than man
has ever conceived
of the gods possessing.
So, no, we're not alone.
But is that it, or are we
just like these slimy little
lifeforms compared to these
great beings that are out there
in the realms of the universe?
Well, not yet, not quite, no.
Because they also
say, yet we also--
these beings were just
as us and even lower.
And we will be even as
they and higher still
because this is our destiny--
to become even greater, right?
And because of this, Hermes
says that human beings
are a great wonder,
a living thing
to be even worshipped
and honored.
And we change our
nature into a god's.
So it's saying that this immense
possibility and potentiality
is within us.
And modern science is starting
to discover and rediscover
this immense possibility
and potentiality within us.
And in the ancient traditions,
the mystery schools
were all about, how do we
tap in to that potential?
How do we awaken that
godlike nature within us?
How do we master ourselves?
And this is not about
hiding your light, guys.
This is about learning
to shine your light,
learning to master all
the different dimensions
and elements and aspects of you.
Because when you do,
you become godlike,
and nothing will get in
your way at that point.
You can become a human who is
like a superhuman, let's say.
All right?
This is called the hero's
journey in the union tradition
or like Joseph
Campbell talked about.
And so Hermes also--
I don't have the quote here.
But Hermes also says
that humans were
ordained to become greater
or better than the gods
with a little g.
And that's because we
have these two natures.
We have this immortal and this
mortal, this eternal essence,
the spiritual essence,
and this physical essence.
And because of
those two natures,
we actually are
here on a journey
of discovering how to
transcend that duality,
how to learn from
the opposite poles,
how to become even greater
by spanning the full spectrum
of possibilities and densities.
And so how do we do that, right?
Ordained in this sense.
We were ordained to become
greater is initiated.
Ordained means to be initiated.
And this is where
the mystery school
traditions initiated and trained
people how to tap into that.
So this is where
I find that things
like personal alchemy and
the Kabbalistic tradition
can come in, because they give
us a sense of, what can we do?
How do we do it?
It's very-- the
Kabbalistic tradition--
the Kabbalah means to receive.
It refers to an oral
tradition, but the word also
can be to accept and to reveal.
And so it is these ancient
mysteries that are revealed,
these wisdom teachings
that are revealed
to us about who we are.
It is ultimately
the study of life
itself and how we
can master this life.
Now, in the oral tradition, see,
so many of the ancient wisdom
teachings were not handed--
they were not inscribed.
Some of the stories might
have been inscribed,
but most of them were
not written down.
They were passed down orally.
And the things that
were written down,
you had to have the oral
tradition, the oral teachings,
to decode and understand those
things that were written.
So much of the
ancient traditions
were an oral passing on
of stories, mythologies.
But the word myth,
the original meaning--
now today we think of myth as a
false story, like a fairy tale.
But the original
meaning of the word myth
was a story told
by word of mouth
that was considered
to be sacred and true.
Sacred and true.
Maybe not scientifically
factual and the way
we think of it today.
But mythologies are
the legends that
deliver universal teachings to
us that are sacred and true.
And we need to study them.
We need to know them,
understand them,
because they help
us understand life
and our potential
and our journey
and what we're here for.
And so the Tree of Life is
one of the central glyphs
of the Kabbalistic system.
Now, again, I work with
the Kabbalistic system
in a nonreligious,
nondogmatic sense.
So we work with it
from a place of how
is this something we can
understand universally.
And the Tree of Life is
like this organizing system.
They say it's this
mother geometry
of all sacred geometries
that all of the universe
is built on, that we are--
it is also a blueprint of us.
It is a blueprint of creation.
It is a blueprint of
our very own DNA, right?
It is the structure that
our DNA winds itself around.
And that is something I also
talk about in my Mystery
Teaching series on Gaia.
And in the
Kabbalistic tradition,
there are many different
versions of the creation story.
And I'd like to share with you--
I was asked to share
with you, actually,
a little bit about something
from the Sefer Yetzirah.
The Sefer Yetzirah is
the Book of Formation.
And it's one of the
first Kabbalistic books
that was committed to writing,
whereas the tradition itself
is an ancient
tradition that's oral.
But here, we had the
first written text
that we know of today
is the Sefer Yetzirah.
Probably written down around
the first century and then
passed down orally, but it's
much more ancient than that.
And it is a very short book.
It's literally just
30 pages worth.
But it is like a codex.
It is encoded, and it talks
about numbers and letters
and sounds and how these were
used to form the universe.
It talks about how the divine
source created space itself.
A container in which creation
could happen and how then
these letters and
numbers and sounds
were the essential
ingredients or building blocks
that would form all things.
And so I'm going to share with
you a little bit about this.
And so one thing that we
need to establish first
is, in the
Kabbalistic tradition,
there are actually many
different names used
to refer to the divine.
Many names of God,
you could say.
But in the-- all
of those are more
like different aspects of
the divine-- their qualities,
their emanations
from the one source.
And that one source that
they ultimately look back to
is the Ein Sof.
And the Ein Sof or the
Ein Sof means infinite,
limitless without end.
It is the infinite source,
and it is beyond our universe.
And everything we
could say about it,
we could say exactly
the opposite as well,
because everything that comes
to be comes from that source.
So it's very difficult
to define and talk about
because it is so beyond what our
human brains will conceive of.
And yet from that
source, they talk
about these emanations, these--
like extensions or
aspects or rays of light
that come out from it.
And they talk first about 10.
The 10 emanations.
The 10-- you can think
of as these rings
of energy coming out
concentrically or different
density levels or dimensions.
But they also look
at this and arrange
those 10 on the Tree of
Life, which are the 10
circles or the 10 spheres.
But the Sefer
Yetzirah starts off
by saying in 32 mysterious
paths of wisdom.
Did Jah or God or Ein
Sof engrave its name
in three Sepharim--
numbers, letters, and sounds.
Now, what are these numbers,
letters, and sounds, right?
So they say there
are 10 numbers.
10 are the ineffable Sephiroth.
22 are the letters, the
foundation of all things.
And I like to
define this for you
in more-- from a
scientific place.
So the numbers are like
pure frequency, pure energy.
And the letters are more
like information patterns,
archetypes, that are more--
a movement, a transition of
energy from one pure energy
to another pure energy.
You have a transitional
process that happens.
And it's a relationship
between those pure states.
And then the sounds are like
the expressions of these numbers
and letters out in a form
that literally shapes matter.
Now one way of
conceiving of this
is to think of a
broadcasting station.
In the days when
we had the radio
and you're tuning
into the radio,
you're tuning into
the TV station, and--
there might be some people
in the audience that
remember the days where you
had-- what was it, 4 channels
that you could access?
You had the BBC 1,
BBC 2, IT, IGTV.
Someone--
>> ITV.
>> Yeah, ITV.
And then channel 4
came along, right?
And you have to play
around with the antenna,
and you got to dial it in.
And we all remember
the days where
you had to dial the radio in.
And sometimes you get static.
And other times you
go, oh, there it is.
There's that clear
channel right there.
So these numbers,
letters, and sounds--
the source.
You can think of the source
as that central broadcasting
station.
And the numbers are
like the channels.
Those channels are dialed into
a particular frequency of energy
that is put out.
The letters are
like the information
that is being carried
upon that channel.
And then the sounds are like
when you have the receiver that
can tune in to that station and
hear-- you can hear the music,
or you can then perceive
the images on the screen,
transitions it into a
way that we can perceive
in this physical density level.
So this is how they work.
But this is all
energy, ultimately.
So these numbers,
letters, and sounds
form everything in the universe.
And this is what the
divine source uses.
Energy, patterns of movement,
and archetypal energy
or information that's
contained within them,
and then the sounds that
literally shape matter.
Now if you want a really,
really good exploration
of how sound shapes
matter, I highly
encourage you to check out
Sounds of Creation on Gaia.
It's this wonderfully
done new season
or new series that
they have created
around the power of sound.
Well, let's come back
to the 22 letters
as the foundation of all things.
And they say in
the Sefer Yetzirah
that the divine formed,
weighed, and composed
with these 22 letters everything
that would be created.
And everything
that shall ever be
has been-- is created
with these 22 letters.
So different combinations,
different interactions
of these waves come
together and form
different holographic
patterns that then are
expressed into our universe.
And one of the ways that we
talk about it in Kabbalah
is that the rays--
or sorry, the letters are
like a ray, a ray of energy.
So you could think again of
that broadcasting station.
So here's a particular
frequency or channel
that you can tune into.
That is a ray.
But in a physics perspective,
we could think of the rays
as like the string theory.
The strings themselves that
the universe vibrates upon.
So these are not just
letters like we think
about in our language today.
These ancient letters were
volumes worth of information
in one letter.
And it was an essence
that was captured
in the pattern of the
movement of that letter.
And so they're building
blocks for creation.
They are-- they have
purpose to them.
They have function.
They have volumes
of information.
They have a vibration,
a unique essence.
Every letter has
Every ray has a unique
purpose and form and function.
Now we can arrange
these 22 letters.
Here, you see them
arranged on octahedron.
And isn't it interesting
that sometimes those UFOs
that appear in this
form, sometimes they
come in this form
of an octahedron?
We can also arrange these
22 letters on a sphere.
You saw the Tree
of Life earlier.
We can arrange it
on the Tree of Life.
So the Kabbalistic
tradition works
with many different
sacred geometries,
but all of them, ultimately,
are formed by these 22 letters.
We also have the form of a
cube and how the letters are--
and this cube here is
the original container
for creation.
It talks about how God sealed
the six directions to create
that container into which
the universe would be built.
So these are full of
intelligent energy.
And that space itself--
spacetime-- the
fabric of spacetime
itself was created
by these letters.
Now these, where
do they come from?
Well, I'm going to move
away a little bit here
from the Sefer
Yetzirah, and I'm going
to share with you a
Kabbalistic creation story.
This is all oral tradition.
So this is not something
that you'll necessarily
find in the book.
Elements of it, you will.
But I'm going to share with
you some of the oral tradition
that I have.
And this also relates
to how do these 22
letters come to form us.
How does this relate to us?
Because that's what,
ultimately, this is all about.
So in the beginning or before
the beginning, we should say,
I like to compare the ends of
the source to a blank canvas.
Everything in nothing.
It's everywhere.
It's infinite potentiality,
yet nothing is there.
And in order for creation
to come into being,
first, the space had to be
created for those somethings
to come to be.
And so the very first act that
this source, this Ein Sof,
did was to contract, to
withdraw from a space
because it's everywhere.
So it had to withdraw.
And it created this
infinitesimally small vacuum--
a little space, a
little tiny dot,
a reference point at the center.
And that reference
point was a vacuum.
It was suddenly a space where
the Ein Sof, the source,
withdrew from.
But there is nowhere that that
infinite source cannot be.
So the moment that it
withdraws from that space,
these infinite energy
from the multiverse
starts to rush in
and fill that space.
And so it then has
this infinite rush--
or they actually talk
about 144,000 rays
coming in from the
multiverse, energies
from beyond filling into this
empty void to fill the vacuum.
But then you have
this infinite energy
being stuffed into this
infinitesimally small space.
And it cannot contain anymore,
and then it explodes out.
And that is when we
then have the Big Bang.
And so this big-- this moment
where all of that energy
came together, all of those rays
of creation from the multiverse
came together, it
forms something
that we call in metaphysics--
or in the mystery school
tradition, we call it
the Great Central Sun.
It's where all of it is one.
In Physics, we call it now
the original singularity,
the unified field
before the expansion.
And in the Sefer
Yetzirah, it actually
calls it the celestial dragon,
the great celestial dragon.
And they say it is placed
over the universe like a king
upon its throne.
And here at this
Great Central Sun
are contained all the blueprints
for the whole universe
within it.
But it's not just
the physical universe
that will come to be all
the stars and the planets
and spacetime
itself and so forth.
It is also the
metaphysical blueprints,
the spiritual blueprints.
And we are our original
self because we also
come from that eternal essence.
We are there, too.
Our true-- what we might
call our true self,
our original self, resides
here at the Great Central Sun.
And so we can symbolize.
This, actually, is an
eye image from NASA
that shows, from the
perspective of Earth,
the entire visible
known universe.
And-- but we'll demonstrate
with this image here
of the spiritual and
physical blueprints
being contained within
this Great Central Sun.
And we are there, too, right?
This is the home of
our original self.
So again, you are not
this physical body.
The who am I is not this.
It is that infinite
eternal intelligent being.
And it is-- its home is
the Great Central Sun.
Its home base.
So we can now think of
the Great Central Sun
as that broadcasting station
that sends from the multiverse
out into our universe.
And it sends out.
So here we are at the
Great Central Sun and--
and we are these--
all one-- it's all a
oneness, but there's
all these blueprints and
holographic imprinting
of the potentialities
there within it.
And you yourself works with
these rays, these 22 building
blocks and archetypal energies.
And then everything,
ultimately, is going
to be built on these things.
So your self, your true
self, sends out broadcasting.
It's like you're the DJ at
the broadcasting station,
and you've got 22
different stations
that you're broadcasting
out into the universe.
So you send out these
emanations or these rays.
And so-- and each one
of them is one of the--
has a different theme, right?
One of the 22
different archetypes
that are related to
these Hebrew letters.
And these go out
into the universe.
And they don't
just come to Earth.
They go out to other star
systems, other planetary
places, and so forth.
And they're sent out.
And wherever they
land and connect
to a physical celestial
body, they broadcast there.
And they-- so you have 22
emanations out there somewhere
in the universe.
And so in a way, our
true self is exploring.
It's not just like
broadcasting information
in a one-way system.
It's a two-way system.
It's like its tentacles,
it's reaching out,
trying to explore the universe
through these 22 rays,
through these 22
different emanations.
And in a way, each
one of those rays
has its own intelligence,
its own consciousness,
its own beingness.
So your true self actually
has 22 galactic emanations,
galactic beings, galactic
lives on 22 different stars
and planets.
So now we can think of, OK,
these extraterrestrials, maybe
they're related to us.
Not just biologically
but metaphysically.
Maybe we are connected to them.
Maybe that's why
they visit us, too.
Maybe-- just
something to consider.
But this isn't all.
Not only do you have
22 emanations out there
from the Great Central Sun out
into the universe exploring.
Maybe one of them is on
Sirius, and maybe one of them
is out on Jupiter, and maybe
one of them is out at--
I don't know,
Arcturus or something.
And then they all reflect
their light back to each other
as well.
So in the Sefer
Yetzirah, it talks
about aligning the
22 around the sphere
and connecting every one
with every other one.
And it forms this image here
that we call the 231 gates.
So these all-- they
receive their light
from the Great Central
Sun at the center.
But then they also
reflect their light
back to the Great
Central Sun, as well as
back to all the others
that their light can
be reflected to.
And it forms this
interconnected,
quantumly-entangled web
of information that is--
like quantum entanglement
happens, its instantaneous flow
of information that
happens across nonlocally.
Space and time don't limit it.
And so this mandala
that we see here,
the sacred geometric
image, is something
that is very central
in the Sefer Yetzirah.
And it says these 231
gates of knowledge.
So you take the
22 Hebrew letters,
you align them
around the sphere,
and arrange them all
together where they
connect with every other one.
And these are
gates of knowledge.
So your true self is out
there gathering knowledge
from the cosmos
through the archetypes,
through the rays of creation,
the foundation of all things.
And then they reflect
back to each other.
And so we have these
quantumly-entangled galactic
lives.
How many of you have ever
felt a sense of connection
to galactic beings
and maybe even
had a dream or a past-life
recall or something
where it was like, I was
out there from the stars
at one point.
How many of you have ever had
that kind of an experience?
Few of you?
I think more of you
probably then are
willing to raise your hands.
[CHUCKLES]
Because you may not
remember it yet.
But as you awaken, you will.
And that's probably
why you're here,
why you're even interested
in topics like what you're
hearing about this weekend.
So here we are.
One of these 22 emanations
is here on Earth.
And so let's come-- let's
come down to Earth now.
And here we have these rays
of light coming to us from all
these other star systems
that our true self
has some galactic emanation on.
And they're all feeding
information to us here
on planet Earth.
And so Earth is receiving all
these broadcasting stations
from the universe as well,
and there's information
contained within that.
And our-- what we can call--
for lack of a better
term, we're going
to call it our higher
self to distinguish it
from our true self that's
on the Great Central Sun.
We're going to call
it our higher self.
Now our higher self is here,
overseeing our experience
on this Earth, right?
So it is the ray that comes
from the Great Central Sun
to this Earth.
And then, also, it's
receiving information
from the other 21
planets or stars
that your other
emanations are on.
And so your higher
self is here overseeing
all these experiences of
our self here on Earth.
Now it then takes all that
information from those other 22
archetypes and then emanates it
onto this Earth plane as well.
And this is where it starts to
get trippy if it's not already
trippy for you.
[CHUCKLES] It's going
to get more because now
your higher self isn't
just overseeing you.
Your higher self is overseeing
22 versions, 22 parallel lives.
Each of those parallel lives
is over-- like kind of colored
by a different archetype.
Like you could be the
scientists in one parallel life,
you could be the king
or the queen in another,
you could be the bum on
the street in another,
you could be a drug
addict in another.
You have all these different
archetypal lives that you're
living out here just on Earth.
And every one of
those other 22--
21 planets or star systems that
you're in also have 22, right?
So now we have 22
times 22, and you
have this factorial
combination of all
these different experiences
that are happening.
So one way of thinking
about this is like a movie.
You have this cineplex.
And in that cineplex, there's
22 different theaters going on,
and each one of them is
playing a different movie.
And this is something
that I do talk
about as well in my Mystery
Teaching series in season 1.
And in this-- so you have 22
different movies going on.
Now your higher self is in
the central control room
that is playing the
different movies and so forth
and watching them all
at once and redirecting.
It's a live interactive movie
versus just a static movie.
So it's redirecting and
directing and sending out
this information.
But you, your
personality, is sitting
in one of those theaters.
And you're watching
yourself on that screen,
and you're getting very
caught up in the drama,
that particular character is
going through in that movie.
You know how we can do that
sometimes when we go to a movie
and we get really
caught up in the--
we know it's a
character on screen.
But we emote with them,
we might root for them,
we might despise them
depending on the character.
And so it's like we got so
focused on just watching
this one movie that we forgot
that we're at the movie
theater for a time.
And you also forgot that
you are both the director
and the main actor
of that movie.
And you forgot your lines.
So we forgot the script, but
we already wrote it here.
And sometimes
because of that, we
get a bit blinded by
our getting caught up
in the drama of
this physical life.
And it can be a
bit scary at times
because we forgot the lines.
And so we-- because
of this blinding
of our multidimensionality,
we get into the situation
where we think, this
is it right here.
This is all there is
to me, but this is not.
This is the most minuscule
part of who you are.
And what we need to do is get
back into that control room
where we can remember
and start to see
the many parallel lives
that are happening,
the many archetypal experiences.
And could it be possible
that if this is happening
all simultaneously-- and
their timelines could be now,
they could be past,
they could be future.
From the higher
self's perspective,
the timeline isn't so important.
And could it be
then that maybe what
some people call past-life
recalls could be some of these?
They could be emanations,
parallel lives,
and where our higher self
and then our true self
is having these infinite
experiences in the universe
all at once.
Now when we can start to get
into the movie central control
room and get into that
perspective of the higher self,
see all the 22, the goal is
to then merge them into one.
And when we say
merge them into one
is to live a
multidimensional life.
Like you start to wake up.
You in this one life, you become
all of those 22 archetypes.
You become more
like the superhero.
multitalented, diverse.
You start doing many
different things,
living 10, 22 lives in one.
And you start having a really
fun, adventurous, and exciting
life.
Very empowered,
knowing that you're
the center of your creation.
And this begins a
journey, an adventure.
They call it the hero's journey.
It's merging the 22 into one.
And that's something I share
in a form or a version of it
in season 4 of
Mystery Teachings.
Now when we move on
from this journey,
the hermetic teachings
say that you shall then
go on and on to higher and
still higher plains for eons
upon eons of time because
this universe is your home.
And you shall explore
its furthest reaches
before the end of time.
So this life isn't it.
This is just one stop on
a journey through eternity
to rediscovering our infinite
potential and multiple
opportunities.
Now one of the
points to this all
is that we already
are galactic beings,
and we don't need to be in
so much awe of like, them
out there.
One of the greatest beings
in the entire universe
to be in awe of
is right in here.
And you just need
to remember that.
Just tap into that.
The most important
place to focus is here.
So how do we re-awaken to
our galactic potential?
How do we re-awaken to that
fullness, the awareness
of who we really are?
So it is a journey
of many steps,
and it begins with
one step at a time.
And this is something that
I really work with people on
is, how do we wake into that?
And I've been mostly doing
a lot of my work in the US,
but I travel around the world.
But I have just recently
relocated to the UK
in the heart of Yorkshire.
Yay.
[CHUCKLES]
[APPLAUSE]
So now the-- leading
many, hopefully,
workshops and experiences
and hands-on training.
Because it's one thing
to read it in a book
or to see it on TV,
but it's another thing
to immerse yourself in the
direct experience of it.
So I'd like to give you a little
taste of an experience now.
And this is a part
of something that--
it's ultimately all
about, knowledge is great.
But if you can't
apply it to your life
to make a positive
difference in your life,
it doesn't serve you.
Might be interesting,
but it doesn't serve you
if it doesn't make a
positive impact in your life,
to improve your life.
So I want to give you
an experience so you
can taste the energy of it.
You can taste it.
And this is something
of how we can
start to awaken to our
multidimensionality
and start merging those
22 archetypes back
into our awareness in
the center of being now.
So to do this, I'm
going to invite
you to look at this image on
the screen of the 231 gates.
Try to open up
your body position.
Uncross your legs,
put your hands--
maybe palm up on
your lap, and just--
we're going to do an
open-eye meditation.
And the place you want
to look to on this glyph
is to the center point, the
very center of this image.
And as you look at this
image and you become aware
of the center, just focus
on your breathing as well.
Breathing in through
the nose, breathing out
through the mouth, and
bring your attention
to the stillness at the center.
And you can allow your
gaze to soften while still
focusing on the center point.
You're taking the whole image
in through an open view,
a soft view.
And you might see, as you
do it, that it becomes,
from a two-dimensional
flat image to taking
on multiple dimensions-- three
dimensions, four dimensions.
And yet even as
that image becomes
dynamic and alive
and multidimensional,
the stillness, the
central reference point
is at the center.
And as you focus on your in
breath and your out breath,
you can also expand the
pause between the breaths.
Bring your awareness
and your tension
to that moment of stillness,
the pause between the in
breath and the out breath.
Extend the pause and notice
the silence between the words.
Even just for a
moment, access at still
point at the center of being.
In the Sefer Yetzirah we work
with the numbers, the letters,
and the sounds.
So from that place of
the center of stillness,
continuing to hold that
focus on that center,
we're going to
tone a sacred word,
the hermetic Kabbalistic
mystery tradition.
That word is tetragrammaton.
So holding your
focus on the center,
we're going to tone this word
three times all together.
Breathing in.
[BREATHS IN]
(SINGING) Tetragrammaton.
This is a word of creation.
One more time.
[BREATHS IN] (SINGING)
Tetragrammaton.
And again.
[BREATHS IN] (SINGING)
Tetragrammaton.
And for good measure,
let's do it one more time.
[BREATHS IN] (SINGING)
Tetragrammaton.
I'll continue to hold
that focus on the center.
And imagine or let it be
as though this sphere forms
an energy field around you.
It's like a sphere and
you were at its center.
Then that sphere begins to
move and rotate clockwise
around you.
The sound, the
vibrations, set it--
sets it into motion.
And it takes on not only
the form of a sphere,
but a torus, a toroidal
flow, that rotates.
And it turns in upon itself.
Visualize this.
Imagine this
happening around you.
Feel it.
And this view here is as
if you're looking down
upon yourself from above.
And then it can be as
if you're looking now
from within, looking out.
And you have layers
upon layers upon layers
of this toroidal
flow circulating
through the space
around you, bringing you
into more and more awareness
of your multidimensionality.
And this toroidal
flow is the same flow
that we see happening around our
globe with the magnetic lines,
around our solar system,
around our galaxy,
around our universe.
So we truly are the microcosm
within the macrocosm.
We are connected to
the whole universe.
You are the multidimensional
galactic being.
Feel that in your
heart, in your center.
Breathe it in, and just let that
seed of light and possibility
awaken within you
to remind your soul
the truth of who you
are, the greatness that
is within you, the wonder
and the magnificence that
is waiting to be
discovered inside of you.
So I believe my time is up.
But I would like to
thank you for listening
and for sharing this experience.
And I would invite you
to also discover more
by going to theresabullard.com,
as well as checking out
Mystery Teachings on Gaia TV.
You can also find me on YouTube
and Instagram and social media
and so forth, and discover more.
And if you have interest in
any of the local programs
that we'll be offering
in the Yorkshire area,
you'll find me back
at the table there.
And we can give you
information about it,
or you can sign up for
the newsletter as well.
And we have just a few
copies of the book left
like maybe nine, [CHUCKLES]
but you can get them on Amazon.
And there will be more
books coming soon.
So stay tuned.
Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]